In the last video i showed you how to
use the WHILE loop. The FOR loop is
very very similar to the WHILE loop.
It's just defined a little bit different.
The FOR loop makes it a lot cleaner to
define the thing we just defined. For example
we just change WHILE to FOR
and what we now need to do,
what we've wrote up here the starting condition,
we can now move inside the brackets here.
The first part until the semicolon defines
the starting condition, the second part
defines how long our FOR loop should run.
And what we did here in the end, add one
to X, we can now also add up here. We have three
elements: start condition, how long should it run,
and in the end what happens after the loop is
finished. And we can do the same for our Y.
And we have the same output. This makes it a lot
more cleaner to write this kind of code and less
lines of code and of course the conditions can
be anything. So they can be bigger than, smaller
than, equal, whatever you want. Also the part
at the end, where you actually change a variable
after each loop, this can also be anything.
It could be plus something, minus something,
or for example we don't need an exact number
here, we could also use our "random" function
to change the values. Obviously because those
values are quite small, let's multiply them by 20.
So now the whole grid is completely
randomly generated to get a little bit more
elements here, as well two.
Obviously, now, because it's generating more
dots, sometimes they're very close together,
it takes a little bit longer, but
this kind of loops give you a lot of
possibilities on what kind of things
you can generate and build in p5.js